README.md, before:

digmbot
=======

digmbot is a relatively simple IRC bot written in gawk which supports plugins.

Running
-------

Simply run the executable with the desired arguments specified like so:

    digmbot -v"key=value" -v"key2=value2" -v"key3=value3" etc

Arguments:

- nick
    - The nick you'd like the bot to have when it connects.
- owner
    - The nick the bot will obey for normal commands listed below.
- server
    - The hostname to connect to.
- port
    - The port number to connect to.
- plugindir
    - The directory in which to look for plugins.

Any arguments left unspecified will default to the value in the `setup()`
function.  This should be trivial to change by editing the bot directly.

Normal commands
---------------

When digmbot is running, if it receives a PM from the `owner` with one of the
following commands it will act accordingly:

- say
    - In the room/to the user specified by the second term, the bot will say
      everything from the third term onwards.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot say #room what to say
- action
    - In the room/to the user specified by the second term, the bot will /me
      everything from the third term onwards.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot action #room what to do
- join
    - The bot will join the room mentioned in the second term.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot join #room
- part
    - The bot will part the room mentioned in the second term.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot part #room
- reload
    - The bot will reload all plugins.  Useful for, for example, adding a new
      plugin.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot reload
- exit
    - The bot will exit.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot exit

Plugins
-------

The bot will attempt to treat everything found in the `plugindir` as a plugin.
The files in there should be executable.  Upon loading the plugin, digmbot will
send the following information to the plugin via stdin.  The first term will be
the name of the key, then there will be a space, followed by the value
corresponding to the key.  Finally, a newline character separates everything.

- nick
- owner
- server
- port
- plugindir
- plugin
- endload

`endload` should always be the final line sent when loading a plugin.  In
theory other lines could be added before that one.  After seeing `endload`, the
plugin should return a regular expression (as interpreted by `gawk`) which will
trigger the plugin.

When digmbot detects the regular expression matches something someone said, it
sends the following items to the plugin, again via stdin:

- user
- room
- message
- endtrigger

Like when loading, when `endtrigger` is seen this indicates the end of
digmbot's information for the plugin.  The plugin should respond by printing
with the one line of output which digmbot will print in the same room it saw
the trigger message.  Alternatively, the plugin can volunteer itself to be
skipped and print nothing.

Only the first plugin which prints something upon trigger is utilized.

See bundled plugins for examples.  Note that while the bundled examples are in
awk, the plugins could be in any language.

Known issues
------------

- digmbot relies on the command `ls` to find the plugins.  In theory someone
  could have gawk but not ls, in which case this could be problematic.
- digmbot can only have one owner.
- Plugins can only return one line of output.
- Plugins can only trigger upon a message from a user and not external sources
  such as a timer or webpage being updated.

Commit message:

Using shell globbing instead of ls to get contents of plugindir
Many thanks to emg and waldner from #awk

README.md, after:

digmbot
=======

digmbot is a relatively simple IRC bot written in gawk which supports plugins.

Running
-------

Simply run the executable with the desired arguments specified like so:

    digmbot -v"key=value" -v"key2=value2" -v"key3=value3" etc

Arguments:

- nick
    - The nick you'd like the bot to have when it connects.
- owner
    - The nick the bot will obey for normal commands listed below.
- server
    - The hostname to connect to.
- port
    - The port number to connect to.
- plugindir
    - The directory in which to look for plugins.

Any arguments left unspecified will default to the value in the `setup()`
function.  This should be trivial to change by editing the bot directly.

Normal commands
---------------

When digmbot is running, if it receives a PM from the `owner` with one of the
following commands it will act accordingly:

- say
    - In the room/to the user specified by the second term, the bot will say
      everything from the third term onwards.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot say #room what to say
- action
    - In the room/to the user specified by the second term, the bot will /me
      everything from the third term onwards.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot action #room what to do
- join
    - The bot will join the room mentioned in the second term.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot join #room
- part
    - The bot will part the room mentioned in the second term.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot part #room
- reload
    - The bot will reload all plugins.  Useful for, for example, adding a new
      plugin.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot reload
- exit
    - The bot will exit.
    - e.g.: /msg digmbot exit

Plugins
-------

The bot will attempt to treat everything found in the `plugindir` as a plugin.
The files in there should be executable.  Upon loading the plugin, digmbot will
send the following information to the plugin via stdin.  The first term will be
the name of the key, then there will be a space, followed by the value
corresponding to the key.  Finally, a newline character separates everything.

- nick
- owner
- server
- port
- plugindir
- plugin
- endload

`endload` should always be the final line sent when loading a plugin.  In
theory other lines could be added before that one.  After seeing `endload`, the
plugin should return a regular expression (as interpreted by `gawk`) which will
trigger the plugin.

When digmbot detects the regular expression matches something someone said, it
sends the following items to the plugin, again via stdin:

- user
- room
- message
- endtrigger

Like when loading, when `endtrigger` is seen this indicates the end of
digmbot's information for the plugin.  The plugin should respond by printing
with the one line of output which digmbot will print in the same room it saw
the trigger message.  Alternatively, the plugin can volunteer itself to be
skipped and print nothing.

Only the first plugin which prints something upon trigger is utilized.

See bundled plugins for examples.  Note that while the bundled examples are in
awk, the plugins could be in any language.

Known issues
------------

- digmbot relies on the system() and the shell (with globbing) to get the
  contents of the plugindir.  In theory someone could install gawk on a system
  without a bourne-style shell somehow.
- digmbot can only have one owner.
- Plugins can only return one line of output.
- Plugins can only trigger upon a message from a user and not external sources
  such as a timer or webpage being updated.
